PROJECT_CONTEXT.md, before:

<!--
  to toggle markdown file press
  1. ctrl + k
  2. v
-->

# LuckyStack Project Context

> **Human-readable documentation for AI assistants and developers to understand this project.**
> Last updated: 2026-02-10

---

# Part 1: Framework Summary

The framework is a **custom-built React + Node.js stack** inspired by Next.js but with socket-first architecture.

## Root Configuration Files

| File                   | Purpose                                                                                        |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `config.ts`            | Main app configuration (URLs, defaults, session layout). Gitignored - use `configTemplate.txt` |
| `envTemplate.txt`      | Template for `.env` file with database, OAuth, and server secrets                              |
| `vite.config.ts`       | Vite bundler config with path aliases (`src/`, `config`) and exclusions for server files       |
| `index.html`           | Entry point with two root divs: `#root` (app) and `#portalRoot` (modals/overlays z-999999999)  |
| `redis.conf`           | Redis configuration for session storage                                                        |
| `prisma/schema.prisma` | MongoDB database schema - currently only `user` model with OAuth providers                     |

## Server Architecture (`/server`)

The backend is **raw Node.js** (no Express) with a custom HTTP router and Socket.io.

### `server/server.ts` - Main Entry Point

- Creates HTTP server with CORS, security headers (Referrer-Policy, X-Frame-Options, X-XSS-Protection)
- HTTP route handling by path prefix:
  - `/auth/api/{provider}` → Redirects to OAuth provider or handles credentials login
  - `/auth/callback/{provider}` → Handles OAuth callback from providers
  - `/uploads/*` → Serves uploaded files (avatars, etc.)
  - `/assets/*` → Serves static assets
  - Everything else → Falls back to `index.html` for SPA routing
- In development mode: initializes hot-reload watchers and REPL console
- Initializes Socket.io via `loadSocket()`

### `server/auth/` - Authentication System

| File             | Purpose                                                                              |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `login.ts`       | Handles credentials login/register and OAuth callback processing                     |
| `loginConfig.ts` | Defines 5 OAuth provider configs (credentials, Google, GitHub, Discord, Facebook)    |
| `checkOrigin.ts` | Validates request origins against allowed domains (DNS, localhost, external origins) |

**Supported Providers:** credentials, Google, GitHub, Facebook, Discord

**Login Flow:**

1. Credentials: Validates email/password, hashes with bcrypt, creates/authenticates user
2. OAuth: Redirects to provider → callback exchanges code for token → fetches user info → creates/finds user
3. On successful login, generates random token and saves session to Redis

### `server/sockets/socket.ts` - Socket.io Server

Handles all real-time communication:

- **`apiRequest`** - RPC-style API calls from client (routed via `handleApiRequest.ts`)
- **`sync`** - Room-based sync events between clients (routed via `handleSyncRequest.ts`)
- **`joinRoom`** - Adds socket to a room (room code stored in session)
- **`updateLocation`** - Tracks user's current page path
- **`disconnect`** - Handles socket disconnection with optional activity broadcasting

### `server/sockets/handleApiRequest.ts` - API Request Handler

- Special handlers for `session` (returns user session) and `logout` (logs out user)
- Validates `auth` requirements before executing API functions
- **Auth Validation System** supports flexible conditions:
  - `login: true` - Requires user to be logged in
  - `additional: [{key, type?, value?, nullish?, mustBeFalsy?}]` - Custom field checks

### `server/sockets/handleHttpApiRequest.ts` - HTTP API Request Handler

- Provides HTTP/REST fallback for all socket-based APIs
- Supports `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE` methods via path `/api/{page}/{apiName}`
- Automatic method inference based on API name prefix (get*, delete*, update\*, etc.)
- Token passed via cookie or `Authorization: Bearer` header

### `server/sockets/handleSyncRequest.ts` - Sync Request Handler

- Validates server-side sync file before broadcasting
- Loops through all sockets in the room and runs client-side sync for each
- Supports `ignoreSelf` to exclude sender from receiving the event

### `server/functions/` - Server Utilities

| File             | Purpose                                                           |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `session.ts`     | Session CRUD in Redis + **auto-kicks previous sessions on login** |
| `redis.ts`       | Redis client wrapper (ioredis)                                    |
| `db.ts`          | Prisma client export for MongoDB                                  |
| `tryCatch.ts`    | Error-safe async function wrapper                                 |
| `sleep.ts`       | Promise-based delay                                               |
| `broadcaster.ts` | Utility for broadcasting to socket rooms                          |
| `game.ts`        | Game-related utilities (for multiplayer games)                    |

### Session Kicking Feature (`session.ts`)

When a user logs in, the system automatically kicks all previous sessions for that user:

1. Looks up all active tokens for the user ID in Redis
2. For each existing session: emits `logout` event to connected sockets, deletes session data
3. Registers new token in the active users set
4. Broadcasts `updateSession` to all sockets with the new token

### `server/dev/` - Development Utilities

| File           | Purpose                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `loader.ts`    | Hot-reloads `_api` and `_sync` files without server restart |
| `hotReload.ts` | File watcher that triggers reloads on changes               |

### `server/sockets/utils/` - Socket Utilities

| File                     | Purpose                                                      |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `logout.ts`              | Handles logout: clears timers, leaves rooms, deletes session |
| `activityBroadcaster.ts` | Tracks user activity (AFK detection, reconnection)           |

### Build Scripts (`/scripts`)

| Script                      | Purpose                                                            |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `generateServerRequests.ts` | Scans `src/` for `_api/` and `_sync/` folders, generates route map |
| `bundleServer.ts`           | Bundles server for production                                      |
| `clearServerRequests.ts`    | Clears generated route map for dev restart                         |

---

## Client Architecture (`/src`)

### Entry Point: `main.tsx`

- File-based routing similar to Next.js
- Scans for `page.tsx` in any non-underscore folder
- Wraps app in providers: `SocketStatus` → `Session` → `Translation` → `Avatar` → `MenuHandler` → `Router`

### Provider Hierarchy (Framework-level)

```
SocketStatusProvider   # Socket connection status
└── SessionProvider    # User session from Redis
    └── TranslationProvider  # i18n with JSON locale files
        └── AvatarProvider   # User avatar caching
            └── MenuHandlerProvider  # Global menu state
                └── RouterProvider   # React Router
```

### `src/_sockets/` - Client-Server Communication

These are the core functions for communicating with the backend:

#### `apiRequest({ name, data })` → Promise (Type-Safe)

- **Fully type-safe API calls** - TypeScript validates API names, input data, and output types
- Auto-prefixes with current path: `api/{path}/{name}`
- Has abort controllers for duplicate GET-like requests

**Type System Features:**

1. **Automatic type inference** - No manual type parameters needed for most cases
2. **Union types for duplicate names** - If same API name exists on multiple pages, accepts union of all input types
3. **Optional page path** - Pass `<'page/path'>` for exact types when duplicate names exist
4. **Required data validation** - `data` is required when API expects specific fields, optional for `Record<string, any>`
5. **Errors for invalid names** - TypeScript error if API name doesn't exist

**Examples:**

```typescript
// Auto-typed - works for unique API names
const result = await apiRequest({ name: "adminOnly", data: {} });

// Union type - 'jow' exists on multiple pages
const result = await apiRequest({
  name: "jow",
  data: { email: "x" }, // OR { name: 'x' }
});

// Exact typing with page path
const result = await apiRequest<"examples/examples2">({
  name: "jow",
  data: { name: "john" }, // Must be { name: string }
});

// Error: API doesn't exist
const result = await apiRequest({ name: "invalid" }); // ❌ TypeScript error

// Error: missing required data
const result = await apiRequest({ name: "jow" }); // ❌ Property 'data' is missing
```

**Type Generation:**

- Types are auto-generated in `src/_sockets/apiTypes.generated.ts` by `server/dev/typeMapGenerator.ts`
- Watches `_api` folders and extracts input/output types from `ApiParams` interface and `main` function return type
- Regenerates on file changes via `server/dev/hotReload.ts`

#### `syncRequest({ name, data, receiver, ignoreSelf })` → Promise (Type-Safe)

- Sends real-time events to other clients in same room
- `receiver` is the room code (e.g., "abc123")
- `ignoreSelf` prevents the sender from receiving the event
- **Fully type-safe** - sync names, clientData, and serverOutput are validated

**Type System Features:**

1. **Automatic type inference** - No manual type parameters needed
2. **Union types for duplicate names** - Same as apiRequest
3. **Optional page path** - Pass `<'page/path'>` for exact types
4. **Required data validation** - `data` required when sync expects specific fields

**Examples:**

```typescript
// Type-safe sync with auto-complete
await syncRequest({
  name: "updateCounter", // ← Autocomplete for sync names
  data: { increase: true }, // ← Type-checked
  receiver: roomCode,
});

// Exact typing with page path
await syncRequest<"examples">({
  name: "updateCounter",
  data: { increase: true },
  receiver: roomCode,
});
```

#### `useSyncEvents()` Hook (Type-Safe)

```typescript
const { upsertSyncEventCallback } = useSyncEvents();

// Type-safe: clientOutput and serverOutput are inferred from sync definition
upsertSyncEventCallback("updateCounter", ({ clientOutput, serverOutput }) => {
  console.log(clientOutput.randomKey); // ← Type from _client file return (success only)
  console.log(serverOutput.increase); // ← Type from _server file return
});
```

**Sync Type System:**
The sync type system has three distinct data types that flow through the system:

| Type           | Source                | Description                                           |
| -------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientInput`  | Sender's `data` param | Original data passed to `syncRequest({ data: ... })`  |
| `serverOutput` | `_server.ts` return   | Data returned from server-side sync handler           |
| `clientOutput` | `_client.ts` return   | Data returned from client-side handler (success only) |

**Type Generation:**

- Types auto-generated in `src/_sockets/apiTypes.generated.ts`
- Watches `_sync/*_server.ts` and `_sync/*_client.ts` files
- `clientOutput` only includes successful returns (error returns are filtered out)

#### `joinRoom(code)` → Promise

- Joins a socket room for sync events
- Room code stored in user session

### `src/_components/` - Reusable UI Components

| Component                 | Purpose                                              |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `TemplateProvider.tsx`    | Wraps pages in templates: `plain`, `home`, `dashboard` |
| `SessionProvider.tsx`     | Provides session context and socket initialization   |
| `Middleware.tsx`          | Route authentication guards                          |
| `LoginForm.tsx`           | OAuth login buttons                                  |
| `MenuHandler.tsx`         | Global menu/modal management                         |
| `Navbar.tsx`              | Top navigation bar                                   |
| `Tooltip.tsx`             | Hover tooltips                                       |
| `Dropdown.tsx`            | Dropdown menus                                       |
| `ConfirmMenu.tsx`         | Confirmation dialogs                                 |
| `TranslationProvider.tsx` | i18n with `src/_locales/{lang}.json`                 |

### Templates (`TemplateProvider.tsx`)

Pages export a `template` constant to specify their wrapper:

1. **`plain`** - Minimal wrapper, no UI chrome. Sets theme to `config.defaultTheme`.
2. **`home`** - Top bar with user avatar, name, settings/home toggle, and logout button. Includes `Middleware` for route guards.
3. **`dashboard`** - Side navigation bar (`Navbar`) with main content area. Includes `Middleware` for route guards.

### Page Routes

| Route       | Template | Purpose                                          |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `/`         | plain    | Root redirect based on session                   |
| `/login`    | plain    | OAuth login page                                 |
| `/register` | plain    | Registration (uses LoginForm)                    |
| `/docs`     | plain    | Documentation pages                              |
| `/settings` | home     | User settings with `_api` folder                 |
| `/examples` | home     | Framework demo page with `_api` and `_sync` examples |
| `/admin`    | (none)   | Admin pages                                      |

### API/Sync Convention

**API Routes** (server-only functions):

- Place files in `src/{page}/_api/{name}.ts`
- Export `main` function and optional `auth` guard
- Call from client: `apiRequest({ name: '{name}' })`

**Sync Routes** (real-time client-server events):

- `src/{page}/_sync/{name}_server.ts` - Runs on server for validation, returns `serverOutput`
- `src/{page}/_sync/{name}_client.ts` - Runs on receiving clients, returns `clientOutput`
- Both files use `clientInput` in SyncParams for the original sender's data
- Call from client: `syncRequest({ name: '{name}', data: clientInput, receiver: 'room-code' })`

---

## Styling

- **TailwindCSS v4** with custom colors in `src/index.css`
- Theme support: light (default) and dark mode via CSS classes
- Custom CSS variables for theme colors defined in `@theme` block:
  - Layout: `background`, `container` (1-4 with `-border` and `-hover` variants)
  - Text: `title`, `common`, `muted`
  - Status: `correct`, `correct-hover`, `wrong`, `wrong-hover`
- Dark mode via `.dark` CSS class on `<html>` element
- `src/scrollbar-dark.css` - Dark scrollbar styles

Commit message:

added offline queue for api and syncs calls

PROJECT_CONTEXT.md, after:

<!--
  to toggle markdown file press
  1. ctrl + k
  2. v
-->

# LuckyStack Project Context

> **Human-readable documentation for AI assistants and developers to understand this project.**
> Last updated: 2026-02-10

---

# Part 1: Framework Summary

The framework is a **custom-built React + Node.js stack** inspired by Next.js but with socket-first architecture.

## Root Configuration Files

| File                   | Purpose                                                                                        |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `config.ts`            | Main app configuration (URLs, defaults, session layout). Gitignored - use `configTemplate.txt` |
| `envTemplate.txt`      | Template for `.env` file with database, OAuth, and server secrets                              |
| `vite.config.ts`       | Vite bundler config with path aliases (`src/`, `config`) and exclusions for server files       |
| `index.html`           | Entry point with two root divs: `#root` (app) and `#portalRoot` (modals/overlays z-999999999)  |
| `redis.conf`           | Redis configuration for session storage                                                        |
| `prisma/schema.prisma` | MongoDB database schema - currently only `user` model with OAuth providers                     |

## Server Architecture (`/server`)

The backend is **raw Node.js** (no Express) with a custom HTTP router and Socket.io.

### `server/server.ts` - Main Entry Point

- Creates HTTP server with CORS, security headers (Referrer-Policy, X-Frame-Options, X-XSS-Protection)
- HTTP route handling by path prefix:
  - `/auth/api/{provider}` → Redirects to OAuth provider or handles credentials login
  - `/auth/callback/{provider}` → Handles OAuth callback from providers
  - `/uploads/*` → Serves uploaded files (avatars, etc.)
  - `/assets/*` → Serves static assets
  - Everything else → Falls back to `index.html` for SPA routing
- In development mode: initializes hot-reload watchers and REPL console
- Initializes Socket.io via `loadSocket()`

### `server/auth/` - Authentication System

| File             | Purpose                                                                              |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `login.ts`       | Handles credentials login/register and OAuth callback processing                     |
| `loginConfig.ts` | Defines 5 OAuth provider configs (credentials, Google, GitHub, Discord, Facebook)    |
| `checkOrigin.ts` | Validates request origins against allowed domains (DNS, localhost, external origins) |

**Supported Providers:** credentials, Google, GitHub, Facebook, Discord

**Login Flow:**

1. Credentials: Validates email/password, hashes with bcrypt, creates/authenticates user
2. OAuth: Redirects to provider → callback exchanges code for token → fetches user info → creates/finds user
3. On successful login, generates random token and saves session to Redis

### `server/sockets/socket.ts` - Socket.io Server

Handles all real-time communication:

- **`apiRequest`** - RPC-style API calls from client (routed via `handleApiRequest.ts`)
- **`sync`** - Room-based sync events between clients (routed via `handleSyncRequest.ts`)
- **`joinRoom`** - Adds socket to a room (room code stored in session)
- **`updateLocation`** - Tracks user's current page path
- **`disconnect`** - Handles socket disconnection with optional activity broadcasting

### `server/sockets/handleApiRequest.ts` - API Request Handler

- Special handlers for `session` (returns user session) and `logout` (logs out user)
- Validates `auth` requirements before executing API functions
- **Auth Validation System** supports flexible conditions:
  - `login: true` - Requires user to be logged in
  - `additional: [{key, type?, value?, nullish?, mustBeFalsy?}]` - Custom field checks

### `server/sockets/handleHttpApiRequest.ts` - HTTP API Request Handler

- Provides HTTP/REST fallback for all socket-based APIs
- Supports `GET`, `POST`, `PUT`, `DELETE` methods via path `/api/{page}/{apiName}`
- Automatic method inference based on API name prefix (get*, delete*, update\*, etc.)
- Token passed via cookie or `Authorization: Bearer` header

### `server/sockets/handleSyncRequest.ts` - Sync Request Handler

- Validates server-side sync file before broadcasting
- Loops through all sockets in the room and runs client-side sync for each
- Supports `ignoreSelf` to exclude sender from receiving the event

### `server/functions/` - Server Utilities

| File             | Purpose                                                           |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `session.ts`     | Session CRUD in Redis + **auto-kicks previous sessions on login** |
| `redis.ts`       | Redis client wrapper (ioredis)                                    |
| `db.ts`          | Prisma client export for MongoDB                                  |
| `tryCatch.ts`    | Error-safe async function wrapper                                 |
| `sleep.ts`       | Promise-based delay                                               |
| `broadcaster.ts` | Utility for broadcasting to socket rooms                          |
| `game.ts`        | Game-related utilities (for multiplayer games)                    |

### Session Kicking Feature (`session.ts`)

When a user logs in, the system automatically kicks all previous sessions for that user:

1. Looks up all active tokens for the user ID in Redis
2. For each existing session: emits `logout` event to connected sockets, deletes session data
3. Registers new token in the active users set
4. Broadcasts `updateSession` to all sockets with the new token

### `server/dev/` - Development Utilities

| File           | Purpose                                                     |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `loader.ts`    | Hot-reloads `_api` and `_sync` files without server restart |
| `hotReload.ts` | File watcher that triggers reloads on changes               |

### `server/sockets/utils/` - Socket Utilities

| File                     | Purpose                                                      |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `logout.ts`              | Handles logout: clears timers, leaves rooms, deletes session |
| `activityBroadcaster.ts` | Tracks user activity (AFK detection, reconnection)           |

### Build Scripts (`/scripts`)

| Script                      | Purpose                                                            |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `generateServerRequests.ts` | Scans `src/` for `_api/` and `_sync/` folders, generates route map |
| `bundleServer.ts`           | Bundles server for production                                      |
| `clearServerRequests.ts`    | Clears generated route map for dev restart                         |

---

## Client Architecture (`/src`)

### Entry Point: `main.tsx`

- File-based routing similar to Next.js
- Scans for `page.tsx` in any non-underscore folder
- Wraps app in providers: `SocketStatus` → `Session` → `Translation` → `Avatar` → `MenuHandler` → `Router`

### Provider Hierarchy (Framework-level)

```
SocketStatusProvider   # Socket connection status
└── SessionProvider    # User session from Redis
    └── TranslationProvider  # i18n with JSON locale files
        └── AvatarProvider   # User avatar caching
            └── MenuHandlerProvider  # Global menu state
                └── RouterProvider   # React Router
```

### `src/_sockets/` - Client-Server Communication

These are the core functions for communicating with the backend:

#### `apiRequest({ name, data })` → Promise (Type-Safe)

- **Fully type-safe API calls** - TypeScript validates API names, input data, and output types
- Auto-prefixes with current path: `api/{path}/{name}`
- Has abort controllers for duplicate GET-like requests
- Queues requests in memory when offline or socket-disconnected, then flushes on reconnect

**Type System Features:**

1. **Automatic type inference** - No manual type parameters needed for most cases
2. **Union types for duplicate names** - If same API name exists on multiple pages, accepts union of all input types
3. **Optional page path** - Pass `<'page/path'>` for exact types when duplicate names exist
4. **Required data validation** - `data` is required when API expects specific fields, optional for `Record<string, any>`
5. **Errors for invalid names** - TypeScript error if API name doesn't exist

**Examples:**

```typescript
// Auto-typed - works for unique API names
const result = await apiRequest({ name: "adminOnly", data: {} });

// Union type - 'jow' exists on multiple pages
const result = await apiRequest({
  name: "jow",
  data: { email: "x" }, // OR { name: 'x' }
});

// Exact typing with page path
const result = await apiRequest<"examples/examples2">({
  name: "jow",
  data: { name: "john" }, // Must be { name: string }
});

// Error: API doesn't exist
const result = await apiRequest({ name: "invalid" }); // ❌ TypeScript error

// Error: missing required data
const result = await apiRequest({ name: "jow" }); // ❌ Property 'data' is missing
```

**Type Generation:**

- Types are auto-generated in `src/_sockets/apiTypes.generated.ts` by `server/dev/typeMapGenerator.ts`
- Watches `_api` folders and extracts input/output types from `ApiParams` interface and `main` function return type
- Regenerates on file changes via `server/dev/hotReload.ts`

#### `syncRequest({ name, data, receiver, ignoreSelf })` → Promise (Type-Safe)

- Sends real-time events to other clients in same room
- `receiver` is the room code (e.g., "abc123")
- `ignoreSelf` prevents the sender from receiving the event
- **Fully type-safe** - sync names, clientData, and serverOutput are validated
- Queues requests in memory when offline or socket-disconnected, then flushes on reconnect

**Type System Features:**

1. **Automatic type inference** - No manual type parameters needed
2. **Union types for duplicate names** - Same as apiRequest
3. **Optional page path** - Pass `<'page/path'>` for exact types
4. **Required data validation** - `data` required when sync expects specific fields

**Examples:**

```typescript
// Type-safe sync with auto-complete
await syncRequest({
  name: "updateCounter", // ← Autocomplete for sync names
  data: { increase: true }, // ← Type-checked
  receiver: roomCode,
});

// Exact typing with page path
await syncRequest<"examples">({
  name: "updateCounter",
  data: { increase: true },
  receiver: roomCode,
});
```

#### `useSyncEvents()` Hook (Type-Safe)

```typescript
const { upsertSyncEventCallback } = useSyncEvents();

// Type-safe: clientOutput and serverOutput are inferred from sync definition
upsertSyncEventCallback("updateCounter", ({ clientOutput, serverOutput }) => {
  console.log(clientOutput.randomKey); // ← Type from _client file return (success only)
  console.log(serverOutput.increase); // ← Type from _server file return
});
```

**Sync Type System:**
The sync type system has three distinct data types that flow through the system:

| Type           | Source                | Description                                           |
| -------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `clientInput`  | Sender's `data` param | Original data passed to `syncRequest({ data: ... })`  |
| `serverOutput` | `_server.ts` return   | Data returned from server-side sync handler           |
| `clientOutput` | `_client.ts` return   | Data returned from client-side handler (success only) |

**Type Generation:**

- Types auto-generated in `src/_sockets/apiTypes.generated.ts`
- Watches `_sync/*_server.ts` and `_sync/*_client.ts` files
- `clientOutput` only includes successful returns (error returns are filtered out)

#### `joinRoom(code)` → Promise

- Joins a socket room for sync events
- Room code stored in user session

### `src/_components/` - Reusable UI Components

| Component                 | Purpose                                              |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `TemplateProvider.tsx`    | Wraps pages in templates: `plain`, `home`, `dashboard` |
| `SessionProvider.tsx`     | Provides session context and socket initialization   |
| `Middleware.tsx`          | Route authentication guards                          |
| `LoginForm.tsx`           | OAuth login buttons                                  |
| `MenuHandler.tsx`         | Global menu/modal management                         |
| `Navbar.tsx`              | Top navigation bar                                   |
| `Tooltip.tsx`             | Hover tooltips                                       |
| `Dropdown.tsx`            | Dropdown menus                                       |
| `ConfirmMenu.tsx`         | Confirmation dialogs                                 |
| `TranslationProvider.tsx` | i18n with `src/_locales/{lang}.json`                 |

### Templates (`TemplateProvider.tsx`)

Pages export a `template` constant to specify their wrapper:

1. **`plain`** - Minimal wrapper, no UI chrome. Sets theme to `config.defaultTheme`.
2. **`home`** - Top bar with user avatar, name, settings/home toggle, and logout button. Includes `Middleware` for route guards.
3. **`dashboard`** - Side navigation bar (`Navbar`) with main content area. Includes `Middleware` for route guards.

### Page Routes

| Route       | Template | Purpose                                          |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `/`         | plain    | Root redirect based on session                   |
| `/login`    | plain    | OAuth login page                                 |
| `/register` | plain    | Registration (uses LoginForm)                    |
| `/docs`     | plain    | Documentation pages                              |
| `/settings` | home     | User settings with `_api` folder                 |
| `/examples` | home     | Framework demo page with `_api` and `_sync` examples |
| `/admin`    | (none)   | Admin pages                                      |

### API/Sync Convention

**API Routes** (server-only functions):

- Place files in `src/{page}/_api/{name}.ts`
- Export `main` function and optional `auth` guard
- Call from client: `apiRequest({ name: '{name}' })`

**Sync Routes** (real-time client-server events):

- `src/{page}/_sync/{name}_server.ts` - Runs on server for validation, returns `serverOutput`
- `src/{page}/_sync/{name}_client.ts` - Runs on receiving clients, returns `clientOutput`
- Both files use `clientInput` in SyncParams for the original sender's data
- Call from client: `syncRequest({ name: '{name}', data: clientInput, receiver: 'room-code' })`

---

## Styling

- **TailwindCSS v4** with custom colors in `src/index.css`
- Theme support: light (default) and dark mode via CSS classes
- Custom CSS variables for theme colors defined in `@theme` block:
  - Layout: `background`, `container` (1-4 with `-border` and `-hover` variants)
  - Text: `title`, `common`, `muted`
  - Status: `correct`, `correct-hover`, `wrong`, `wrong-hover`
- Dark mode via `.dark` CSS class on `<html>` element
- `src/scrollbar-dark.css` - Dark scrollbar styles
